High.
This section of the course we're going to look at functions now functions are first class functions
all functions in Python are first class functions.
What do we mean by first class First let's define what a fourth class object means.
But just that's a pretty standard definition a.
An object is a first class object if it has the following characteristics.
It can be passed to a function as an argument.
Right.
An integer can be passed to function as an argument can be written from a function and an integer can
also be returned from a function.
It can be assigned to a variable all an integer can be assigned to a variable and it can be stored in
a data structure such as a list or a topple you know any data structure that we have of course integers
can be stored in lists and tables and dictionaries and so on.
So any object that has these characteristics is called a first class object.
So most of the objects we've seen actually all of the objects we've seen so far.
Like ants and floats and lists and topples all these are first class objects but functions are also
first class objects.
First of all functions are objects.
We've seen that before.
But moreover they also have these characteristics a function can be passed to function as an argument
function can be returned from a function a function can be assigned to a variable and a function can
be stored in a data structure.
So we can have you know an element in a list that happens to be a function.
So that's possible as well so all functions in Python are first class objects and so we refer to them
as first class citizens of first class functions higher order functions is another term that will come
across and that's pretty straightforward.
Higher order functions are simply functions that either take a function as an argument.
So for example the simple timer that we wrote in the last section of the calls right.
It was a function that ran another function and timed it.
So it took that function that it was going to run as an argument.
Therefore that timing function was a higher order function because it took in a function as an argument
but a higher order function can also be a function that returns a function.
Remember functions are first class objects so they can be passed to functions and they can be returned
from functions.
So a function that either takes in or returns a function is a a higher order function.
And we haven't seen those yet but we're going to see that a lot especially when we cover decorators
in the next section where we have functions that return functions and also when we look at closures
and things like that.
So some of the topics in this section we're going to focus on function annotations and documentation.
Then we'll look at lambda expressions and anonymous functions.
We'll look at call obols and really we're just going to redefine what is callable What are the different
callable types in Python.
And we'll take a look at that little bit of code as well then we'll look at function.
Introspection that's kind of interesting this allows us to use code to look at the meta data essentially
of a function.
What are its parameters for example and other properties too.
And then we'll look at some of the built in higher order functions like silted which allows us to sort
things right so it rebels that we'll look at other things as well like map and filter.
These are all built in functions that are higher order functions.
We'll also look at the phunk tools module that has a lot of higher order functions as well.
We'll look at some of them we'll look at reduce for example and we'll look at other ones like all and
any as well.
And then lastly we'll also look at something called Parshall's and Paschall methods and that's kind
of interesting that allows us to do some interesting stuff.
So we'll take a look at that at the end of the section.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.